# üìñ Notes

> üìù Extra notes on the process more or less specific to our gear.

## OxySan

Use 1 table spoon for 1 gallon of warm water.

Usually, we do half a table spoon for whatever pot is about 2 liters.

## Boil

Higher temperature will result in sweeter beer, lower temperature will
result in dryer beer.

## Brewing

If the yeast is refrigerated, might as well get it out right now.

Rinse bucket, medium (19 L) and big caldron (with spigot).

Basically fill the 19 L caldron for the usual 18.5 L of water for the
mash, and heat it up.

Put the grains in the big caldron, pour the hot water in when it's at
the right temperature.

At least 30 minutes before the end of the mash, use the bucket to get
the right amount of water for rinsing the grains (usually 15 L), pour it
in the 19 L caldron and start to heat it up so it's at the right
temperature when the mash is done.

When the mash is ready, drin the first part into the bucket and cover it.

Runse the grains with the water from the 19 L caldron that's already
ready and to the right temperature.

After 15 minutes, drain the rest into the 19 L caldron (and not into the
bucket), as it's gonna be easier to pour two reasonable quantities from
two different recipients than a big quantity from a single recipient
(will help prevent to make a mess).

After rinsing the big caldron (won't be necessary once we get a filter
bag), pour back the mash from the two recipients into the caldron for
the boil.

Add hops according to recipe.

At least 15 minutes before the end of the boil, put the wort chiller
into the boiling mash to give it time to be santiized by the boil. Plug
the plastic tubes to the wort chiller before putting it in as after this
the copper will be hot.

When done with the boil, start running cool water through the wort
chiller.

Probably a good idea to activate the yeast now.

While it's cooling, prepare OxySan (see ratio above) and sanitize the
carboy.

When cooled down, remove the wort chiller and pour the wort from the
caldron into the carboy using the spigot.

Sanitize the yeast bag before adding the yeast, then gently mix.

Santiize the blow-off tube and put sanitized water into the blow-off
jar, or santiize the airlock, and set up the blow-of or the airlock.

## Botteling

Pretty much all you need is
[Northern Brewer Priming Sugar Calculator](https://northernbrewer.ca/pages/priming-sugar-calculator).
